Player Injuries & Team Performance Dashboard

Project Overview

This project analyzes the relationship between player injuries and team performance using real-world style football analytics data. The dashboard helps technical directors, coaches, and sports analysts understand how injuries affect the match outcomes, player performance trends, and club-wide injury patterns.

The interactive dashboard is built with Python, Pandas, NumPy, Plotly and Streamlit, and is deployed via Streamlit Cloud. The dashboard enables filtering interactively by clubs, players, age groups, and time windows.

The project is part of the **Mathematics for AI – II (IADAI102) module and completes the requirements of the Summative Assessment.

Key Features

Interactive Visualizations
Top Injuries by Performance Drop (Bar Chart) - This will show which injuries affect team performance the most.

Injury Frequency Heatmap Month vs Club: Shows injury clusters. Age vs Performance Drop: This is a scatter plot showing how age relates to performance decline post-injury.

Comeback Leaderboard (Table) - ranks players who improved the most after injury.

Data Filters & Exploration Tools
Filter by club, player, age range, match date range, and injury status.

View raw dataset inside the dashboard.

Download filtered data as CSV.

Automated Preprocessing** The app cleans and transforms the dataset as follows: The basic data preprocessing steps carried out include: * Handling missing values.
Converting dates.

Calculating rolling averages for pre- and post-injury performance.

Computing Performance Drop Index. Project Structure │── app.py # Main Streamlit application

│── requirements.txt # Python libraries needed

│── /data (optional) # Your dataset (CSV/XLSX)

│── README.md # Documentation file

│── /screenshots # Dashboard screenshots

How to Run Locally

Install dependencies
pip install requirements.txt

Run the Streamlit app
streamlit run app.py

View in your browser
The application will open automatically at : Deployment Instructions (Streamlit Cloud) Step-by-step:

Create a GitHub repository.
Upload:
app.py
requirements.txt
3.(Streamlit Cloud).

Click Deploy an App.
Link your GitHub account.
Select your repository.
Click Deploy. Your live dashboard link will be generated automatically.
Requirements (requirements.txt)

streamlit pandas numpy plotly openpyxl About the Dataset The dashboard works on a dataset with columns that include:

Player Name

Club

Match Date

Rating

Goals

Injury Start Date

Injury End Date

Age

Injury ID

This app auto-generates sample data for demonstration if no dataset is uploaded. Learning Outcomes Covered ✔ Apply mathematical/statistical logic in interpreting data patterns ✔ Clean and process real-world data in Python ✔ Perform EDA and extract insights ✔ Deploy and document GitHub repositories professionally Author Student Name: N.Vihan Course: Mathematics for AI – II
